# Moving SPK to Bedrock Repo: A Phased Approach

## Phase 1: Prep work before moving SPK to Bedrock Repo

### Bedrock Repo Changes

By making following changes in existing Bedrock repo minimizes the number of
changes after the merge and limits the testing scope.

#### Current Bedrock Repo

```
├── .github
├── cluster
├── docs
├── gitops
├── pipelines
├── test
├── tools
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── .gitignore
├── azure-pipelines.yml
```

#### Proposed Changes

- Create `src` folder in `cluster` folder
- Move all files and folders except `src` from `cluster` to `cluster\src`
- Move `azure-pipelines.yml` file from the root to `cluster\build\pipelines`
  directory and make sure all pipelines still works.
- Move `test` folder to `cluster` folder and make sure all tests and pipelines
  still works.
- Move `bedrock` related files from `tools` directory to `cluster\build` folder
  and make sure existing Bedrock release process still works.
- [ ] Move following files form the `root` directory to `cluster` and make sure
      `cluster` project can be opened in VS Code.
  - LICENSE
  - .gitignore

#### Testing

After making the above changes, need to make sure that the follwing tests pass.

- Verify the environments integration tests continue to work in `azdo`
- Verify `bedrock` release provess work
- Verify the project can be opened in VS Code from the `cluster` folder

#### Bedrock repo after changes

`Bedrock` repo would look like below after implementing the above changes.

```
├── .github
├── gitops
├── cluster
    ├── build
        ├── pipelines
            ├── azure-pipelines.yml
        ├── tools
    ├── docs
    ├── src
    ├── test
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── README.md
    ├── .gitignore

```

### SPK Repo Changes

Making following changes in existing SPK repo minimizes the number of changes
after the merge and limits the testing scope to SPK functioanlity.

#### Current SPK repo

```
├── .github
├── azure-pipelines
    ├── templates
├── docs
    ├── commands
├── guides
├── patches
├── scripts
├── src
├── technical-docs
    ├── designs
├── tests
├── tools
├── typings
    ├── ssh-url
├── .editorconfig
├── .env.example
├── .gitignore
├── CHANGELOG.md
├── README.md
├── azure-pipelines.yml
├── jest.config.js
├── package.json
├── release-pipeline.yml
├── smoke-test-pipeline.yml
├── spk-config.yaml
├── tsconfig.json
├── tslint.json
├── typings
├── webpack.config.js
├── .yarn.lock
```

#### Themes

The main themes are related to organizing `docs` and `build` related artifacts
in `spk` from the root to appropriate directories.

1. Organize all pipeline yaml files, scripts, and tools that are related to
   building and releasing binaries under `build` directory.

2. Organize all docs that are related to using and contributing bedrock under
   `docs` directory.

#### Proposed Changes

The majority of the proposed changes in `spk` repo are related to organizing
`docs` and `build` folders.

- Move following files from the `root` to `build\pipelines` folder and make sure
  all pipelines continue to work.
  - azure-pipelines.yml
  - release-pipeline.yml
  - smoke-test-pipeline.yml
- Move following files from the `scripts` to `build\publishing` folder and
  verify the scripts generate `command` docs.
  - generateDoc.ts
  - locateAliases.ts
- Move `patches` directory to `build\patches` folder and make sure `yarn build`
  and `yarn test` continue to work.
- Move `azure-pipelines\templates` folder to `build\pipelines\templates` folder
  and verify all pipelines continue to work.
- Move `guides\contributing.md` file to `documents\contribution` folder
- Move `guides` folder to `documents` folder
- Move `technical-docs\designs` to `documents\contribution\designs` folder
- Remove `.github\workflows` folder since it is not being used

#### Testing

After making the above changes, need to make sure that the follwing tests pass.

- Verify cli build pipeline is working
- Verify cli integration test pipeline is working
- Verify cli release pipeline is working
- Verify cli autogenerated docs are working on GitHub pages
- Verify all docs links are working

#### SPK repo after changes

`spk` repo would look like below after implementing the above changes.

```
├── build
    ├── pipelines
        ├── templates
        ├── azure-pipelines.yml
        ├── release-pipeline.yml
        ├── smoke-test-pipeline.yml
     ├── patches
         ├── 001-azure-devops-node.patch
     ├── publishing
         ├── generateDoc.ts
         ├── locateAliases.ts
     ├── tools
         ├── release-version-bump.sh
         ├── tag-release.sh
         ├── update_introspection.sh
├── docs
    ├── commands
├── documents
    ├── contribution
        ├── contributing.md
        ├── designs
    ├── guides
├── src
    ├── lib
    ├── commands
    ├── logger
├── tests
├── typings
    ├── ssh-url
├── .editorconfig
├── .gitignore
├── jest.config.js
├── tsconfig.json
├── tslint.json
├── CHANGELOG.md
├── README.md
├── package.json
├── webpack.config.js
├── .yarn.lock
```

### Phase 2: Move SPK to Bedrock Repo

TODO

### Phase 3: Create a side by side new repo for Bedrock Infra/Cluster terraform

TODO
