# Software Design Document: Passing arguments to a Dockerfile during `az acr build` execution

Reference: An option to pass environment variables while building a Dockerfile
<br> Authors: Bhargav Nookala, Evan Louie, James Spring, Michael Tarng, Yvonne
Radsmikham

| Revision | Date         | Author            | Remarks       |
| -------: | ------------ | ----------------- | ------------- |
|      0.1 | Mar-26, 2020 | Yvonne Radsmikham | Initial Draft |

## 1. Overview

This design will enhance the developer experience for using
`spk service create`. Currently, the concern is that building of the Dockerfile
assumes there are no inputs into the build process. This is handled in a script
task of the `build` stage in the `build-update-hld.yaml`, which is generated
when `spk service create` is executed.

Snippet of `build-update-hld.yaml`:

```yaml
    - script: |-
        set -e
        export BUILD_REPO_NAME=$(echo $(Build.Repository.Name)-fabrikam.acme.frontend | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]')
        export IMAGE_TAG=$(echo $(Build.SourceBranchName) | tr / - | tr . - | tr _ - )-$(Build.BuildNumber)
        export IMAGE_NAME=$BUILD_REPO_NAME:$IMAGE_TAG
        echo "Image Name: $IMAGE_NAME"
        cd ./services/fabrikam.acme.frontend
        echo "az acr build -r $(ACR_NAME) --image $IMAGE_NAME ."
        az acr build -r $(ACR_NAME) --image $IMAGE_NAME .
    displayName: ACR Build and Publish
```

## 2. Out of Scope

This design shall only aim to make user experience better by adding new features
to service creation.

## 3. Design Details

### 3.1 Add new arguments for `spk service create` to link or create variable groups

As part of `spk service create`, add the following features:

- Create a new command argument `--build-vg` to link an existing variable group
  or create a new variable group with variables to be passed into a Docker build
  execution.

- Add argument `--build-variables` to take in an array of key-value pairs for
  all variables to be used in an existing or new variable group. This argument
  will support secret variables if specified.

Example:

```sh
spk service create "fabrikam.acme.frontend" -d "services" -p "chart" -g "https://dev.azure.com/bedrock/fabrikam/_git/fabrikam2019" -b "master" --build-vg "my-azdo-build-vg" --build-variables [version:0.0.1,path:$HOME,apikey:key:isSecret]
```

To do this, we would be leveraging `spk project cvg` or
`spk variable-group create`. This _can_ be done as a **prerequisite** for using
the `build-vg` and `--build-variables`. For example, if the user is providing a
variable group name that does not exist, we may return an error message to
enforce that they create the variable group first with the appropriate variables
to use by executing `spk project cvg` or `spk variable-group create` beforehand.

As part of the build-update-hld.yaml, where there is the "ACR Build and Publish"
task
([L208](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock-cli/blob/7fd1606a6e6ad0a4622a8be2f20fe3a0c17e5a82/src/lib/fileutils.ts#L208)-[L217](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock-cli/blob/7fd1606a6e6ad0a4622a8be2f20fe3a0c17e5a82/src/lib/fileutils.ts#L217))
generated by `spk service create`, we can add logic to iterate through the
variable array assocciated with a variable group and inject variables as
arguments to be part of the `az acr build` command
(i.e.`az acr build -r $(ACR_NAME) -f $(DOCKER_BUILD_FILE) --build-arg $key=${value}`).
In the `build-update-hld.yaml`, this would imply that each variable that needs
to be passed into the Dockerfile will need to be exported (i.e.
`export PATH=${PATH}`) as an environment variable so that it can be captured in
the build command.

The iteration should be conditional, meaning if there are no variable groups
linked, then the assumption is made that there are no arguments needed to be
passed into the build process, and in which case the build process will continue
as how it is working currently.

## 4. Dependencies

None

## 5. Known issues

None

## 6. Risks & Mitigations

There needs to be proper error handling when dealing with naming collisions in
creating new variable groups or adding new variables to existing variable
groups.

## 7. Documentation

Documentation should be done in the
[`md` file](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock-cli/blob/master/src/commands/service/create.md)
that are associated with `spk service create` command.

\- end -
