guides/manual-guide-to-rings.md, before:

# A Manual Guide to Managing Rings

## Introduction

This guide presumes that you have set up your `spk` project, and installed all
necessary pipelines created via `spk project init` (the lifecycle pipeline),
`spk service create` (build update hld pipeline), and `spk hld init` (manifest
generation pipeline), and followed the
[guidelines for creating helm charts](./building-helm-charts-for-spk).

In `spk`, we offer the concept of a `ring` - a way to route inbound traffic to
_revisions_ of a service on a Kubernetes cluster via request headers. For
example, if an inbound request is decorated with the `Ring: dev` header, the
request is routed to the `dev` revision of a service. Similarly, if a request is
decorated with the `Ring: prod` header, the request is routed to the `prod`
revision of a service.

## Service Revisions and Git

Service revisions are built and deployed by committing to bedrock.yaml tracked
git branches in the form of a `ring`. A `ring` maps one to one with a service
revision, which maps directly onto a git branch.

Let's think about a git repository containing three branches, `dev`, `qa`, and
`prod`. Each of these branches contain variations of an application's source
code. `dev` containing the in-progress feature work, `qa` containing stable, but
under-test feature work, and `prod`, containing live/production ready features.

A `bedrock.yaml` for this service might look like:

```yaml
rings:
  dev:
    isDefault: true
  qa:
  prod:
services:
  ./:
    displayName: "fabrikam"
    helm:
      chart:
        branch: master
        git: "https://dev.azure.com/fabrikam/frontend/_git/charts"
        path: frontend
    k8sBackend: "fabrikam-k8s-svc"
    k8sBackendPort: 80
    middlewares: []
    pathPrefix: "fabrikam-service"
    pathPrefixMajorVersion: "v1"
variableGroups:
  - fabrikam-vg
```

Each of the three entries under the `rings` object map one to one with a git
branch in the application source repository. When this `bedrock.yaml` is
deployed, and the container images for each of the `rings` are built and pushed
for the `fabrikam` service, your cluster will have three running revisions of
the `fabrikam` application - one each for `dev`, `qa`, and `prod`. A user is
then able to invoke each revision by making HTTP requests to a single endpoint,
decorated with the proper header for each Ring.

## How deploying service revisions with rings will work

Refer to the `bedrock.yaml` above, with the following rings, and thus git
branches:

```
- dev
- prod
- qa
```

A user wants to add a ring `test-new-homepage`, they first create the `ring`, by
invoking the relevant `spk` command:

- `spk ring create test-new-homepage`

This command will add an entry to our `rings` dictionary in `bedrock.yaml`, and
modify all `build-update-hld` pipelines for services tracked in bedrock.yaml.
Our revised `bedrock.yaml` will now look like:

```yaml
rings:
  dev:
    isDefault: true
  qa:
  prod:
  test-new-homepage: <-- NEW -->
services:
  ./:
    displayName: "fabrikam"
    helm:
      chart:
        branch: master
        git: "https://dev.azure.com/fabrikam/frontend/_git/charts"
        path: frontend
    k8sBackend: "fabrikam-k8s-svc"
    k8sBackendPort: 80
    middlewares: []
    pathPrefix: "fabrikam-service"
    pathPrefixMajorVersion: "v1"
variableGroups:
  - fabrikam-vg
```

And the revised `build-update-hld` pipeline for the `fabrikam` service will now
look like:

```yaml
trigger:
  branches:
    include:
      - dev
      - qa
      - prod
      - test-new-homepage <-- NEW -->
variables:
  - group: fabrikam-vg
…
```

_Note that the `test-new-homepage` branch name has been added to the branch
include trigger_

A user is then expected to commit and push the `bedrock.yaml`, and the updated
pipelines yaml files.

The user can then create the `test-new-homepage` branch, and check it out:

- `git checkout dev -b test-new-homepage`

When a user commits to the `test-new-homepage` branch in the application
repository, the `build-update-hld` pipeline will be able to build the container
image with the changes to the source code from the `test-new-homepage` branch.
It will continue to push the image to Azure Container Registry, and make a pull
request against the High Level Definition repository with the newly built
container image tag.

## Status Quo and current work

At present, `spk` is at version `0.5.4`, which _does_ not implement `ring`
management commands - ie adding or removing a `ring` using a _more_ user
friendly cli, however this work is being tracked in the following github issues:

- [Ring Management Docs and Implementation Epic](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock/issues/955)
- [Adding a Ring in SPK](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock/issues/969)
- [Deleting a Ring in SPK](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock/issues/971)
- [Setting a default Ring in SPK](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock/issues/972)
- [Removing a service and a ring from a Cluster](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock/issues/858)

## Bridging the gap

While `ring` management features are not yet available in `spk`, we can bridge
the gap to using `rings` with a few manual steps for configuration

### Adding a Ring

See [this issue](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock/issues/969) for details on
how this feature will be implemented in `spk`.

To add a ring manually, an `spk` user can take the following steps:

1. Ensure a git branch exists with the same name of the `ring` to be added (eg:
   a `ring` named `test-new-feature` relies on a git branch with the same name,
   `test-new-feature`)
2. In an application repository's `bedrock.yaml`, add the name of the `ring` to
   the top level `rings` object ie:

```yaml
rings:
  dev:
    isDefault: true
  qa:
  prod:
  test-new-feature: <-- NEW -->
…
```

3. For _every_ service tracked in bedrock.yaml, ensure that service's
   `build-update-hld` pipeline is configured to trigger off of the `ring` branch
   ie:

```yaml
trigger:
  branches:
    include:
      - dev
      - qa
      - prod
      - test-new-feature <-- NEW -->
variables:
  - group: fabrikam-vg
…
```

4. Commit the changes to the `bedrock.yaml`, and all updated `build-update-hld`
   pipelines.
5. Approve the generated Pull Request from the `hld-lifecycle` pipeline against
   the HLD repository. This Pull Request will add a new `ring` component for
   each service tracked in bedrock.yaml. The `ring` component is identified in
   the below diagram as `[Ring Component]`

![Sample HLD](./images/spk-hld-generated.png)

6. Change to the new `ring` branch: `test-new-feature`, and begin to commit, and
   push code as you normally would.

### Deleting a Ring

See: [this issue](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock/issues/971) for details
on how this feature will be implemented in `spk`.

To delete a `ring` manually, an `spk` user can take the following steps:

1. In an application repository's `bedrock.yaml`, remove the name of the `ring`
   from the top level `rings` object ie:

Before:

```yaml
rings:
  dev:
    isDefault: true
  qa:
  prod:
  test-new-feature: <-- DELETE -->
…
```

After:

```yaml
rings:
  dev:
    isDefault: true
  qa:
  prod:
…
```

2. For _every_ service tracked in bedrock.yaml, ensure that service's
   `build-update-hld` pipeline is no longer configured to trigger off the `ring`
   branch ie:

Before:

```yaml
trigger:
  branches:
    include:
      - dev
      - qa
      - prod
      - test-new-feature <-- DELETE -->
variables:
  - group: fabrikam-vg
…
```

After:

```yaml
trigger:
  branches:
    include:
      - dev
      - qa
      - prod
variables:
  - group: fabrikam-vg
…
```

3. Commit the changes to the `bedrock.yaml`, and all updated `build-update-hld`
   pipelines.
4. Observe that committing to the `test-new-feature` should no longer trigger
   builds.

_Do note that deleting a `ring` presently does not remove the service and `ring`
from a cluster. This work is being
[tracked here](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock/issues/858) but the
following instructions will detail how this can be done manually_

5. To remove a `ring` from a cluster, you must remove the `ring` component from
   the HLD. Recall the Pull Request generated by the `hld-lifecycle` pipeline
   when adding a `ring` to the `bedrock.yaml` file. The `ring` component is
   identified in the below diagram as `[Ring Component]`. In a clone of the HLD
   repository, one can delete the directory identified by `[Ring Component]`:

![Sample HLD](./images/spk-hld-generated.png)

6. Finally, a user must modify the `component.yaml` within the directory
   identified by `[Service Component]` in the above diagram to no longer point
   to the directory that was deleted. For our sample service, `fabrikam`, with a
   ring to be removed, `test-new-feature`, the Service Component
   `component.yaml` resembles this structure. A user can simply remove the
   `test-new-feature` entry in the subcomponents array:

```yaml
name: fabrikam
subcomponents:
  - name: dev
    type: component
    method: local
    path: ./dev
  - name: qa
    type: component
    method: local
    path: ./qa
  - name: prod
    type: component
    method: local
    path: ./prod
  - name: test-new-feature   <-- DELETE -->
    type: component          <-- DELETE -->
    method: local            <-- DELETE -->
    path: ./test-new-feature <-- DELETE -->
```

7. Finally, after ensuring the `component.yaml` has been updated, and the `ring`
   component directory in the HLD has been removed for the service, a user can
   commit and push the changes to a branch, merging it into the master branch of
   their HLD, and triggering a rebuild of manifests deployed to the cluster.

Commit message:

Expanding rings guides on automation through spk and adding clarifica… (#388)
* Expanding rings guides on automation through spk and adding clarification on pipelines

* Update rings-101.md

Typo

* feedback

Co-authored-by: Andre Briggs <andrebriggs@users.noreply.github.com>

guides/manual-guide-to-rings.md, after:

# A Manual Guide to Managing Rings

## Introduction

This guide presumes that you have set up your `spk` project, and installed all
necessary pipelines created via `spk project init` (the lifecycle pipeline),
`spk service create` (build update hld pipeline), and `spk hld init` (manifest
generation pipeline), and followed the
[guidelines for creating helm charts](./building-helm-charts-for-spk).

In `spk`, we offer the concept of a `ring` - a way to route inbound traffic to
_revisions_ of a service on a Kubernetes cluster via request headers. For
example, if an inbound request is decorated with the `Ring: dev` header, the
request is routed to the `dev` revision of a service. Similarly, if a request is
decorated with the `Ring: prod` header, the request is routed to the `prod`
revision of a service.

## Service Revisions and Git

Service revisions are built and deployed by committing to bedrock.yaml tracked
git branches in the form of a `ring`. A `ring` maps one to one with a service
revision, which maps directly onto a git branch.

Let's think about a git repository containing three branches, `dev`, `qa`, and
`prod`. Each of these branches contain variations of an application's source
code. `dev` containing the in-progress feature work, `qa` containing stable, but
under-test feature work, and `prod`, containing live/production ready features.

A `bedrock.yaml` for this service might look like:

```yaml
rings:
  dev:
    isDefault: true
  qa:
  prod:
services:
  ./:
    displayName: "fabrikam"
    helm:
      chart:
        branch: master
        git: "https://dev.azure.com/fabrikam/frontend/_git/charts"
        path: frontend
    k8sBackend: "fabrikam-k8s-svc"
    k8sBackendPort: 80
    middlewares: []
    pathPrefix: "fabrikam-service"
    pathPrefixMajorVersion: "v1"
variableGroups:
  - fabrikam-vg
```

Each of the three entries under the `rings` object map one to one with a git
branch in the application source repository. When this `bedrock.yaml` is
deployed, and the container images for each of the `rings` are built and pushed
for the `fabrikam` service, your cluster will have three running revisions of
the `fabrikam` application - one each for `dev`, `qa`, and `prod`. A user is
then able to invoke each revision by making HTTP requests to a single endpoint,
decorated with the proper header for each Ring.

## How deploying service revisions with rings will work

Refer to the `bedrock.yaml` above, with the following rings, and thus git
branches:

```
- dev
- prod
- qa
```

A user wants to add a ring `test-new-homepage`, they first create the `ring`, by
invoking the relevant `spk` command:

- `spk ring create test-new-homepage`

This command will add an entry to our `rings` dictionary in `bedrock.yaml`, and
modify all `build-update-hld` pipelines for services tracked in bedrock.yaml.
Our revised `bedrock.yaml` will now look like:

```yaml
rings:
  dev:
    isDefault: true
  qa:
  prod:
  test-new-homepage: <-- NEW -->
services:
  ./:
    displayName: "fabrikam"
    helm:
      chart:
        branch: master
        git: "https://dev.azure.com/fabrikam/frontend/_git/charts"
        path: frontend
    k8sBackend: "fabrikam-k8s-svc"
    k8sBackendPort: 80
    middlewares: []
    pathPrefix: "fabrikam-service"
    pathPrefixMajorVersion: "v1"
variableGroups:
  - fabrikam-vg
```

And the revised `build-update-hld` pipeline for the `fabrikam` service will now
look like:

```yaml
trigger:
  branches:
    include:
      - dev
      - qa
      - prod
      - test-new-homepage <-- NEW -->
variables:
  - group: fabrikam-vg
…
```

_Note that the `test-new-homepage` branch name has been added to the branch
include trigger_

A user is then expected to commit and push the `bedrock.yaml`, and the updated
pipelines yaml files.

The user can then create the `test-new-homepage` branch, and check it out:

- `git checkout dev -b test-new-homepage`

When a user commits to the `test-new-homepage` branch in the application
repository, the `build-update-hld` pipeline will be able to build the container
image with the changes to the source code from the `test-new-homepage` branch.
It will continue to push the image to Azure Container Registry, and make a pull
request against the High Level Definition repository with the newly built
container image tag.

## Status Quo and current work

At present, `spk` is at version `0.5.4`, which _does_ not implement `ring`
management commands - ie adding or removing a `ring` using a _more_ user
friendly cli, however this work is being tracked in the following github issues:

- [Ring Management Docs and Implementation Epic](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock/issues/955)
- [Adding a Ring in SPK](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock/issues/969)
- [Deleting a Ring in SPK](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock/issues/971)
- [Setting a default Ring in SPK](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock/issues/972)
- [Removing a service and a ring from a Cluster](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock/issues/858)

## Bridging the gap

While `ring` management features are not yet available in `spk`, we can bridge
the gap to using `rings` with a few manual steps for configuration

### Adding a Ring

See [this issue](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock/issues/969) for details on
how this feature will be implemented in `spk`.

To add a ring manually, an `spk` user can take the following steps:

1. Ensure a git branch exists with the same name of the `ring` to be added (eg:
   a `ring` named `test-new-feature` relies on a git branch with the same name,
   `test-new-feature`)
2. In an application repository's `bedrock.yaml`, add the name of the `ring` to
   the top level `rings` object ie:

```yaml
rings:
  dev:
    isDefault: true
  qa:
  prod:
  test-new-feature: <-- NEW -->
…
```

3. For _every_ service tracked in bedrock.yaml, ensure that service's
   `build-update-hld` pipeline is configured to trigger off of the `ring` branch
   ie:

```yaml
trigger:
  branches:
    include:
      - dev
      - qa
      - prod
      - test-new-feature <-- NEW -->
variables:
  - group: fabrikam-vg
…
```

4. Commit the changes to the `bedrock.yaml`, and all updated `build-update-hld`
   pipelines.
5. Approve the generated Pull Request from the `hld-lifecycle` pipeline against
   the HLD repository. This Pull Request will add a new `ring` component for
   each service tracked in bedrock.yaml. The `ring` component is identified in
   the below diagram as `[Ring Component]`

![Sample HLD](./images/spk-hld-generated.png)

6. Change to the new `ring` branch: `test-new-feature`, and begin to commit, and
   push code as you normally would.

### Deleting a Ring

See: [this issue](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock/issues/971) for details
on how this feature will be implemented in `spk`.

To delete a `ring` manually, an `spk` user can take the following steps:

1. In an application repository's `bedrock.yaml`, remove the name of the `ring`
   from the top level `rings` object ie:

Before:

```yaml
rings:
  dev:
    isDefault: true
  qa:
  prod:
  test-new-feature: <-- DELETE -->
…
```

After:

```yaml
rings:
  dev:
    isDefault: true
  qa:
  prod:
…
```

2. For _every_ service tracked in bedrock.yaml, ensure that service's
   `build-update-hld` pipeline is no longer configured to trigger off the `ring`
   branch ie:

Before:

```yaml
trigger:
  branches:
    include:
      - dev
      - qa
      - prod
      - test-new-feature <-- DELETE -->
variables:
  - group: fabrikam-vg
…
```

After:

```yaml
trigger:
  branches:
    include:
      - dev
      - qa
      - prod
variables:
  - group: fabrikam-vg
…
```

3. Commit the changes to the `bedrock.yaml`, and all updated `build-update-hld`
   pipelines.
4. Observe that committing to the `test-new-feature` should no longer trigger
   builds.

**Note:** Deleting a `ring` presently does not remove the service and `ring`
from a cluster as the project lifecycle pipeline does not yet remove rings or
services from the HLD repository. The work to support the automated removal of
rings and services is being
[tracked here.](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock/issues/858) The following
instructions will detail how to remove a ring from a cluster by removing all
references to the ring in the HLD repository.

#### Removing the Ring from the cluster

1. To remove a `ring` from a cluster, you must remove the `ring` component from
   the HLD. Recall the Pull Request generated by the `hld-lifecycle` pipeline
   when adding a `ring` to the `bedrock.yaml` file. The `ring` component is
   identified in the below diagram as `[Ring Component]`. In a clone of the HLD
   repository, one can delete the directory identified by `[Ring Component]`:

![Sample HLD](./images/spk-hld-generated.png)

2. Finally, a user must modify the `component.yaml` within the directory
   identified by `[Service Component]` in the above diagram to no longer point
   to the directory that was deleted. For our sample service, `fabrikam`, with a
   ring to be removed, `test-new-feature`, the Service Component
   `component.yaml` resembles this structure. A user can simply remove the
   `test-new-feature` entry in the subcomponents array:

```yaml
name: fabrikam
subcomponents:
  - name: dev
    type: component
    method: local
    path: ./dev
  - name: qa
    type: component
    method: local
    path: ./qa
  - name: prod
    type: component
    method: local
    path: ./prod
  - name: test-new-feature   <-- DELETE -->
    type: component          <-- DELETE -->
    method: local            <-- DELETE -->
    path: ./test-new-feature <-- DELETE -->
```

3. Make sure the above steps are followed for each service associated with the
   `bedrock.yaml` that the `ring` was removed from.

4. Finally, after ensuring the `component.yaml` has been updated, and the `ring`
   component directory in the HLD has been removed for the service, a user can
   commit and push the changes to a branch, merging it into the master branch of
   their HLD. The subsequent triggered HLD to manifest pipeline will regenerate
   the manifests, which will now exclude the removed ring, and the next flux
   deployment will remove any associated k8s deployments and services from the
   cluster.
