docs/cloud-infra-management.md, before:

# Cloud Infra Management

Manage and update Bedrock infrastructure.

Usage:

```
spk infra [command] [options]
```

Commands:

- [validate](#validate)
- [scaffold](#scaffold)
- [generate](#generate)

## Prerequisites

### Environment variables

Specify values for the following environment variables:

```
ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID
ARM_CLIENT_ID
ARM_CLIENT_SECRET
ARM_TENANT_ID
```

Instructions on how to specify environment variables can be found
[here](../README.md).

Other prerequisites are installed via the [`validate` command](#validate).

## Commands

### validate

Initializes the environment to deploy Bedrock infrastructure.

It will do the following:

- Verifies if prerequisites (e.g. terraform, git, helm, az cli) are installed
- Verifies that user is logged into Azure via CLI
- Check for environment variables (e.g. ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID, ARM_CLIENT_ID,
  ARM_CLIENT_SECRET, ARM_TENANT_ID)

```
Usage:
spk infra validate|v [options]

Options:
   -h, --help  Usage information
```

### scaffold

Create initial scaffolding for cluster deployment.

Builds a scaffold of an infrastructure deployment project containing a
`definition.json` that enables a user to version, modify and organize terraform
deployments.

It will do the following:

- Check if `spk infra validate` succeeded
- Create a new folder with the `<name>` you provided.
- Provide an infrastructure deployment scaffold based on a `<source>` git url
  for a terraform deployment, `<version>` respective to the repository of which
  tag to pull, and a `<template>` (LOCAL-ONLY) of the path to the variables.tf
  file for which `spk` will embed into a definition json file.

```
Usage:
spk infra scaffold|s [options]

> `spk infra scaffold --name discovery-service --source https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock --version "v0.12.0" --template /cluster/environments/azure-simple`

Options:
  -n, --name <name>                              Cluster name for scaffolding
  -s, --source <tf source github repo url>       Source URL for the repository containing the terraform deployment
  -v, --version <repository (tag) version>       Version or tag for the repository so a fixed version is referenced
  -t, --template <path to tf files in repo>      Location of variables.tf for the terraform deployment
  -h, --help                                     Usage information
```

#### scaffold sample

```
spk infra scaffold --name discovery-service --source https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock --version "v0.12.0" --template /cluster/environments/azure-simple
```

Output:

definition.json

```json
{
  "name": "discovery-service",
  "source": "https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock",
  "template": "bedrock/cluster/environments/azure-simple",
  "version": "v0.12.0",
  "variables": {
    "agent_vm_count": "3",
    "agent_vm_size": "Standard_D2s_v3",
    "acr_enabled": "true",
    "gc_enabled": "true",
    "cluster_name": "<insert value>",
    "dns_prefix": "<insert value>",
    "flux_recreate": "<insert value>",
    "kubeconfig_recreate": "<insert value>",
    "gitops_ssh_url": "<insert value>",
    "gitops_ssh_key": "<insert value>",
    "gitops_path": "<insert value>",
    "gitops_url_branch": "master",
    "resource_group_name": "<insert value>",
    "ssh_public_key": "<insert value>",
    "service_principal_id": "<insert value>",
    "service_principal_secret": "<insert value>",
    "gitops_poll_interval": "5m",
    "vnet_name": "<insert value>",
    "service_cidr": "10.0.0.0/16",
    "dns_ip": "10.0.0.10",
    "docker_cidr": "172.17.0.1/16",
    "address_space": "10.10.0.0/16",
    "subnet_prefix": "10.10.1.0/24",
    "network_plugin": "azure",
    "network_policy": "azure",
    "oms_agent_enabled": "false"
  }
}
```

### generate

Generates a deployment folder based on scaffolded project with a definition.json

Generates a deployment folder of an infrastructure scaffolded project containing
a `definition.json` that contains a `source`, `template` and `version` to obtain
and complete the terraform template files.

It will do the following (**In Progress**):

- Check if a provided project folder contains a `definition.json`
- Check if the terraform template `source` provided has a valid remote
  repository
- Cache the master version of the provided `source` repository locally in
  `~/.spk/templates`
  > Cached repositories will be converted through regex for spk to hash. I.e. a
  > `source` template of `https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock` will be cached
  > into a folder called `_microsoft_bedrock_git`
- Create a "generated" directory for Terrform deployments
- Copy the appropriate Terraform templates to the "generated" directory
- Create a `spk.tfvars` in the generated directory based on the variables
  provided in `definition.json`

Commit message:

Consolidate documentation in spk code base (#134)
* consolidate documentation in spk code base- North Star, Terragrunt, Infra GitOps

docs/cloud-infra-management.md, after:

# Cloud Infra Management

Manage and update Bedrock infrastructure. For more information on the
`spk infra` design, refer to the infrasrtucture design docs
[here](./infra/README.md).

Usage:

```
spk infra [command] [options]
```

Commands:

- [validate](#validate)
- [scaffold](#scaffold)
- [generate](#generate)

## Prerequisites

### Environment variables

Specify values for the following environment variables:

```
ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID
ARM_CLIENT_ID
ARM_CLIENT_SECRET
ARM_TENANT_ID
```

Instructions on how to specify environment variables can be found
[here](../README.md).

Other prerequisites are installed via the [`validate` command](#validate).

## Commands

### validate

Initializes the environment to deploy Bedrock infrastructure.

It will do the following:

- Verifies if prerequisites (e.g. terraform, git, helm, az cli) are installed
- Verifies that user is logged into Azure via CLI
- Check for environment variables (e.g. ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID, ARM_CLIENT_ID,
  ARM_CLIENT_SECRET, ARM_TENANT_ID)

```
Usage:
spk infra validate|v [options]

Options:
   -h, --help  Usage information
```

### scaffold

Create initial scaffolding for cluster deployment.

Builds a scaffold of an infrastructure deployment project containing a
`definition.json` that enables a user to version, modify and organize terraform
deployments.

It will do the following:

- Check if `spk infra validate` succeeded
- Create a new folder with the `<name>` you provided.
- Provide an infrastructure deployment scaffold based on a `<source>` git url
  for a terraform deployment, `<version>` respective to the repository of which
  tag to pull, and a `<template>` (LOCAL-ONLY) of the path to the variables.tf
  file for which `spk` will embed into a definition json file.

```
Usage:
spk infra scaffold|s [options]

> `spk infra scaffold --name discovery-service --source https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock --version "v0.12.0" --template /cluster/environments/azure-simple`

Options:
  -n, --name <name>                              Cluster name for scaffolding
  -s, --source <tf source github repo url>       Source URL for the repository containing the terraform deployment
  -v, --version <repository (tag) version>       Version or tag for the repository so a fixed version is referenced
  -t, --template <path to tf files in repo>      Location of variables.tf for the terraform deployment
  -h, --help                                     Usage information
```

#### scaffold sample

```
spk infra scaffold --name discovery-service --source https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock --version "v0.12.0" --template /cluster/environments/azure-simple
```

Output:

definition.json

```json
{
  "name": "discovery-service",
  "source": "https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock",
  "template": "bedrock/cluster/environments/azure-simple",
  "version": "v0.12.0",
  "variables": {
    "agent_vm_count": "3",
    "agent_vm_size": "Standard_D2s_v3",
    "acr_enabled": "true",
    "gc_enabled": "true",
    "cluster_name": "<insert value>",
    "dns_prefix": "<insert value>",
    "flux_recreate": "<insert value>",
    "kubeconfig_recreate": "<insert value>",
    "gitops_ssh_url": "<insert value>",
    "gitops_ssh_key": "<insert value>",
    "gitops_path": "<insert value>",
    "gitops_url_branch": "master",
    "resource_group_name": "<insert value>",
    "ssh_public_key": "<insert value>",
    "service_principal_id": "<insert value>",
    "service_principal_secret": "<insert value>",
    "gitops_poll_interval": "5m",
    "vnet_name": "<insert value>",
    "service_cidr": "10.0.0.0/16",
    "dns_ip": "10.0.0.10",
    "docker_cidr": "172.17.0.1/16",
    "address_space": "10.10.0.0/16",
    "subnet_prefix": "10.10.1.0/24",
    "network_plugin": "azure",
    "network_policy": "azure",
    "oms_agent_enabled": "false"
  }
}
```

### generate

Generates a deployment folder based on scaffolded project with a definition.json

Generates a deployment folder of an infrastructure scaffolded project containing
a `definition.json` that contains a `source`, `template` and `version` to obtain
and complete the terraform template files.

It will do the following (**In Progress**):

- Check if a provided project folder contains a `definition.json`
- Check if the terraform template `source` provided has a valid remote
  repository
- Cache the master version of the provided `source` repository locally in
  `~/.spk/templates`
  > Cached repositories will be converted through regex for spk to hash. I.e. a
  > `source` template of `https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock` will be cached
  > into a folder called `_microsoft_bedrock_git`
- Create a "generated" directory for Terrform deployments
- Copy the appropriate Terraform templates to the "generated" directory
- Create a `spk.tfvars` in the generated directory based on the variables
  provided in `definition.json`
