docs/project-service-management-guide.md, before:

# Service Management in Bedrock

This document describes the workflow for deploying a set of services
[Bedrock](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock/) workflows via the
[spk](https://github.com/catalystcode/spk) CLI tool.

## High Level Overview

1. Confirm you have met the [Requirements](#requirements) for SPK's automation.
2. [Install and configure SPK](#installing-and-configuring-spk)
3. Create and configure the required
   [high level definition and manifest repositories](#repositories)
4. [Initialize the Bedrock Application Repository](#initializing-an-application-repository)
5. [Add a service to the Bedrock Application Repository](#adding-a-service-to-a-application-repository)
6. Optional: [Create a Service Revision](#creating-a-service-revision)

**Notes:**

- Steps 1-4 typically only need to be done once. Multiple clusters may be
  configured to sync from the single Materialized Manifest Repositories, and
  multiple Project repositories can be pointed to the single High Level
  Definition Repository.
- Step 5 can be repeated each time you need to onboard a service to your Bedrock
  automated infrastructure.
- Step 6 can be run as many times as required to add a service revision to a
  Bedrock project.

An overview of how these different pieces fit together from an automation
perspective:

![spk resources](/docs/images/spk-resource-diagram.png "Bedrock SPK Resources")

## Requirements

This guide assumes a few things as requirements to use this automation:

1. The application code and supporting repositories are hosted on
   [Azure Devops](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/devops/).
   - If starting from scratch, then first create a
     [new Azure Devops Organization](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/user-guide/sign-up-invite-teammates?view=azure-devops),
     then
     [create a project](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/organizations/projects/create-project?view=azure-devops&tabs=preview-page).
2. The application will be packaged and run using container images hosted on
   [Azure Container Registry](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/container-registry/)
3. The user running `spk` has full access to the above resources.
4. The user is running the latest `spk`
   [release](https://github.com/catalystcode/spk/releases).
5. The user has
   [Azure CLI installed](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/?view=azure-cli-latest).
6. The user is running [git](http://git-scm.org) version
   [2.22](https://github.blog/2019-06-07-highlights-from-git-2-22/) or later.
7. Optional: If a user wishes to store helm charts in the application
   repositories, then all repositories (application, high level definition,
   materialized manifests) must be in the same Azure DevOps Organization AND
   Project.

## Installing and Configuring SPK

`spk` is the Command Line Interface that provides automation around defining and
operating Kubernetes clusters with Bedrock principles.

### Setup SPK

Download the latest version of `spk` from the
[releases](https://github.com/catalystcode/spk/releases) page and add it to your
PATH.

To setup a local configuration:

1. [Generate a Personal Access Token](#generating-personal-access-token)
2. [Create a spk config file](#create-spk-config-file)
3. [Initialize spk](#initializing-spk)

### Generate Personal Access Token

Generate a new Personal Access Token (PAT) to grant `spk` permissions in the
Azure Devops Project. Please grant PAT the following permissions:

- Build (Read & execute)
- Code (Read, write, & manage)
- Variable Groups (Read, create, & manage)

For help, follow the
[guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/organizations/accounts/use-personal-access-tokens-to-authenticate?view=azure-devops&tabs=preview-page).

### Create SPK config file

Create a copy of `spk-config.yaml` from the starter
[template](./../spk-config.yaml) with the appropriate values for the
`azure_devops` section.

**Note:** This `spk-config.yaml` should not be commited anywhere, as it contains
sensitive credentials.

### Initialize SPK

Run `spk init -f <spk-config.yaml>` where `<spk-config.yaml>` the path to the
configuation file.

**Note:** When running `spk init -f <spk-config.yaml>`, `spk` will copy the
values from the config file and store it into local memory elsewhere. If you
wish to utilize `spk` with another project or target, then you must rerun
`spk init` with another configuration first OR, you may overwrite each commands
via flags.

## Repositories

Our next step is to create or onboard the repositories that support the
deployment of our services:

1. The high level definition repository
2. The materialized manifest repository
3. The application source code repository

### High Level Definition Repository

This repository holds the Bedrock High Level Deployment Definition (HLD) and
associated configurations.

This HLD is processed via [fabrikate](https://github.com/microsoft/fabrikate) in
Azure Devops on each change to generate Kubernetes YAML manifests that are
applied to the Kubernetes cluster by Flux.

#### Initializing the High Level Definition Repository

- [Create a repository in the given AzDO project.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/create-new-repo?view=azure-devops#create-a-repo-using-the-web-portal)
- Edit your SPK config to point to this repo (if you haven't already done this).
- [Clone the repository.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/create-new-repo?view=azure-devops#clone-the-repo-to-your-computer)
- Initialize via `spk`, this will add the fabrikate
  [cloud-native](https://github.com/microsoft/fabrikate-definitions/tree/master/definitions/fabrikate-cloud-native)
  stack as a initial sample component.
  ```
  spk hld init --git-push
  ```

**NOTE** `spk hld` command documentation can be found
[here](/docs/hld-management.md).

### Materialized Manifests Repository

This repository holds all the materialized kubernetes manifests that should be
deployed to a cluster. If a cluster has been deployed via Bedrock's Terraform
templates, then flux should be configured to point to this repository and will
deploy all manifests in this repository to the cluster periodically.

#### Initializing the Materialized Manifests Repository

- [Create a repository in the given AzDO project.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/create-new-repo?view=azure-devops#create-a-repo-using-the-web-portal)
- Edit your SPK config to point to this repo (if you haven't already done this).
- [Clone the repository.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/create-new-repo?view=azure-devops#clone-the-repo-to-your-computer)
- Add a simple README to the repository
  ```
  touch README.md
  echo "This is the Flux Manifest Repository." >> README.md
  git add -A
  git commit -m "Initializing Materialized Manifests repository with a README."
  git push -u origin --all
  ```

#### Deploy Manifest Generation Pipeline

Deploy a manifest generation pipeline between the high level definition repo and
the materialized manifests repo. Assuming you have configured `spk`, you can run
this without flag parameters from your HLD repo root:

```
$ spk hld install-manifest-pipeline
```

### Application Repositories

These repositories hold the application code, its associated Dockerfile(s), and
helm deployment charts.

Additionally, these repositories can hold one (single application) or more
(monorepository) applications depending on your development methodology.
Typically, each repository shold be configured with a "hld-lifecycle" Azure
DevOps pipeline that will add all managed applications inside the repository to
the High Level Definition Repository. Additionally, each application inside the
repository should also have an associated Azure DevOps multi-stage pipeline that
both builds and deploys the latest Docker image to Azure Container Registry and
updates the associated configuation in the HLD repository with the latest image
tag.

-TBD Section on packages directory and manging monorepositories vs single
application repositories

#### Initializing an Application Repository

- [Create a repository in the given AzDO project.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/create-new-repo?view=azure-devops#create-a-repo-using-the-web-portal)
- [Clone the repository.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/create-new-repo?view=azure-devops#clone-the-repo-to-your-computer)
- Initialize the project via `spk`
  ```
  $ spk project init
  $ git add -A
  $ git commit -m "Initializing application repository."
  $ git push -u origin --all
  ```
- Create a variable group via `spk`. If you are using a repo per service source
  control strategy, you only need to do this once.
  ```
  $ export VARIABLE_GROUP_NAME=<my-vg-name>
  $ spk project create-variable-group $VARIABLE_GROUP_NAME -r $ACR_NAME -u $SP_APP_ID -t $SP_TENANT -p $SP_PASS
  $ git add -A
  $ git commit -m "Adding Project Variable Group."
  $ git push -u origin --all
  ```
  where `ACR_NAME` is the name of the Azure Container Registry where the Docker
  Images will be served from and `SP_APP_ID`, `SP_PASS`, and, `SP_TENANT` are an
  associated Service Principal's ID, Password, and Tenant, that have Read and
  Write access to the ACR.
- Deploy the lifecycle pipeline (optional flag parameters can be used if `spk`
  was not intialized)

  ```
  $ spk project install-lifecycle-pipeline --org-name $ORG_NAME --devops-project $DEVOPS_PROJECT --repo-url $SERVICE_REPO_URL --repo-name $SERVICE_NAME
  ```

  where `ORG_NAME` is the name of your Azure Devops org, `DEVOPS_PROJECT` is the
  name of your Azure Devops project, `SERVICE_REPO_URL` is the url that you used
  to clone your service from Azure Devops, and `SERVICE_NAME` is the name of the
  service.

  Note: If you are using a repo per service source control strategy you should
  run `install-lifecycle-pipeline` once for each repo.

**NOTE** `spk project` command documentation can be found
[here](/docs/project-management.md).

#### Adding a Service to a Application Repository

- [Clone the repository.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/create-new-repo?view=azure-devops#clone-the-repo-to-your-computer)
- Create the service via `spk`, there are optional parameters that _should_ be
  used to configure the service and its associated helm charts (other optional
  flag parameters can be used if `spk` was not intialized)
  ```
  SERVICE_NAME=<my-new-service-name>
  spk service create . --display-name $SERVICE_NAME ...
  git add -A
  git commit -m "Adding $SERVICE_NAME to the repository."
  git push -u origin --all
  ```
- Deploy the service's multistage build pipeline via `spk` (optional flag
  parameters can be used if `spk` was not intialized)
  ```
  spk service install-build-pipeline . -n $SERVICE_NAME-build-pipeline -o $ORG_NAME -r $SERVICE_NAME -u $SERVICE_REPO_URL -d $DEVOPS_PROJECT
  ```
- Review and accept the pull request to add the service to the high level
  definition in Azure Devops.

**NOTE** `spk service` command documentation can be found
[here](/docs/service-management.md).

#### Creating a Service Revision

- Create and checkout a new git branch
  ```
  git branch <my-new-feature-branch>
  git checkout <my-new-feature-branch>
  ```
- Make code changes and commit
  ```
  echo "# My New Added File" >> myNewFile.md
  git add myNewFile.md
  git commit -m "Adding my new file"
  git push --set-upstream origin <my-new-feature-branch>
  ```
- Create Service Revision via `spk` (optional flag parameters can be used if
  `spk` was not intialized)
  ```
  spk service create-revision . -n $SERVICE_NAME-build-pipeline -o $ORG_NAME -r $SERVICE_NAME -u $SERVICE_REPO_URL -d $DEVOPS_PROJECT
  ```

**NOTE** `spk service` command documentation can be found
[here](/docs/service-management.md).

## Helm Charts

To have spk's build pipelines work properly, an application needs an associated
[Helm](https://helm.sh/) chart with specific variables.

### Requirements

TBD

### Sample Helm Chart

TBD

## Variable Groups

TBD

- Done to hold secure credentials and secrets.

## Pipelines

TBD

- Application build & update (1 per application)
- HLD lifecycle (adds applications to HLD repo)
- HLD to Manifests (generates manifests via fabrikate and places manifests into
  flux's source repo)

Commit message:

By default, spk hld init will only include traefik2 (#293)
* Changing default hld component to Traefik2 and adding options to override default

* docs

Co-authored-by: Yvonne Radsmikham <yvonne.radsmikham@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Samiya Akhtar <samiyaakhtar7@gmail.com>

docs/project-service-management-guide.md, after:

# Service Management in Bedrock

This document describes the workflow for deploying a set of services
[Bedrock](https://github.com/microsoft/bedrock/) workflows via the
[spk](https://github.com/catalystcode/spk) CLI tool.

## High Level Overview

1. Confirm you have met the [Requirements](#requirements) for SPK's automation.
2. [Install and configure SPK](#installing-and-configuring-spk)
3. Create and configure the required
   [high level definition and manifest repositories](#repositories)
4. [Initialize the Bedrock Application Repository](#initializing-an-application-repository)
5. [Add a service to the Bedrock Application Repository](#adding-a-service-to-a-application-repository)
6. Optional: [Create a Service Revision](#creating-a-service-revision)

**Notes:**

- Steps 1-4 typically only need to be done once. Multiple clusters may be
  configured to sync from the single Materialized Manifest Repositories, and
  multiple Project repositories can be pointed to the single High Level
  Definition Repository.
- Step 5 can be repeated each time you need to onboard a service to your Bedrock
  automated infrastructure.
- Step 6 can be run as many times as required to add a service revision to a
  Bedrock project.

An overview of how these different pieces fit together from an automation
perspective:

![spk resources](/docs/images/spk-resource-diagram.png "Bedrock SPK Resources")

## Requirements

This guide assumes a few things as requirements to use this automation:

1. The application code and supporting repositories are hosted on
   [Azure Devops](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/devops/).
   - If starting from scratch, then first create a
     [new Azure Devops Organization](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/user-guide/sign-up-invite-teammates?view=azure-devops),
     then
     [create a project](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/organizations/projects/create-project?view=azure-devops&tabs=preview-page).
2. The application will be packaged and run using container images hosted on
   [Azure Container Registry](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/container-registry/)
3. The user running `spk` has full access to the above resources.
4. The user is running the latest `spk`
   [release](https://github.com/catalystcode/spk/releases).
5. The user has
   [Azure CLI installed](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/?view=azure-cli-latest).
6. The user is running [git](http://git-scm.org) version
   [2.22](https://github.blog/2019-06-07-highlights-from-git-2-22/) or later.
7. Optional: If a user wishes to store helm charts in the application
   repositories, then all repositories (application, high level definition,
   materialized manifests) must be in the same Azure DevOps Organization AND
   Project.

## Installing and Configuring SPK

`spk` is the Command Line Interface that provides automation around defining and
operating Kubernetes clusters with Bedrock principles.

### Setup SPK

Download the latest version of `spk` from the
[releases](https://github.com/catalystcode/spk/releases) page and add it to your
PATH.

To setup a local configuration:

1. [Generate a Personal Access Token](#generating-personal-access-token)
2. [Create a spk config file](#create-spk-config-file)
3. [Initialize spk](#initializing-spk)

### Generate Personal Access Token

Generate a new Personal Access Token (PAT) to grant `spk` permissions in the
Azure Devops Project. Please grant PAT the following permissions:

- Build (Read & execute)
- Code (Read, write, & manage)
- Variable Groups (Read, create, & manage)

For help, follow the
[guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/organizations/accounts/use-personal-access-tokens-to-authenticate?view=azure-devops&tabs=preview-page).

### Create SPK config file

Create a copy of `spk-config.yaml` from the starter
[template](./../spk-config.yaml) with the appropriate values for the
`azure_devops` section.

**Note:** This `spk-config.yaml` should not be commited anywhere, as it contains
sensitive credentials.

### Initialize SPK

Run `spk init -f <spk-config.yaml>` where `<spk-config.yaml>` the path to the
configuation file.

**Note:** When running `spk init -f <spk-config.yaml>`, `spk` will copy the
values from the config file and store it into local memory elsewhere. If you
wish to utilize `spk` with another project or target, then you must rerun
`spk init` with another configuration first OR, you may overwrite each commands
via flags.

## Repositories

Our next step is to create or onboard the repositories that support the
deployment of our services:

1. The high level definition repository
2. The materialized manifest repository
3. The application source code repository

### High Level Definition Repository

This repository holds the Bedrock High Level Deployment Definition (HLD) and
associated configurations.

This HLD is processed via [fabrikate](https://github.com/microsoft/fabrikate) in
Azure Devops on each change to generate Kubernetes YAML manifests that are
applied to the Kubernetes cluster by Flux.

#### Initializing the High Level Definition Repository

- [Create a repository in the given AzDO project.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/create-new-repo?view=azure-devops#create-a-repo-using-the-web-portal)
- Edit your SPK config to point to this repo (if you haven't already done this).
- [Clone the repository.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/create-new-repo?view=azure-devops#clone-the-repo-to-your-computer)
- Initialize via `spk`, this will add the fabrikate
  [traefik2](https://github.com/microsoft/fabrikate-definitions/tree/master/definitions/traefik2)
  as the initial sample component. This can be overridden via optional flags.
  ```
  spk hld init --git-push
  ```

**NOTE** `spk hld` command documentation can be found
[here](/docs/hld-management.md).

### Materialized Manifests Repository

This repository holds all the materialized kubernetes manifests that should be
deployed to a cluster. If a cluster has been deployed via Bedrock's Terraform
templates, then flux should be configured to point to this repository and will
deploy all manifests in this repository to the cluster periodically.

#### Initializing the Materialized Manifests Repository

- [Create a repository in the given AzDO project.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/create-new-repo?view=azure-devops#create-a-repo-using-the-web-portal)
- Edit your SPK config to point to this repo (if you haven't already done this).
- [Clone the repository.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/create-new-repo?view=azure-devops#clone-the-repo-to-your-computer)
- Add a simple README to the repository
  ```
  touch README.md
  echo "This is the Flux Manifest Repository." >> README.md
  git add -A
  git commit -m "Initializing Materialized Manifests repository with a README."
  git push -u origin --all
  ```

#### Deploy Manifest Generation Pipeline

Deploy a manifest generation pipeline between the high level definition repo and
the materialized manifests repo. Assuming you have configured `spk`, you can run
this without flag parameters from your HLD repo root:

```
$ spk hld install-manifest-pipeline
```

### Application Repositories

These repositories hold the application code, its associated Dockerfile(s), and
helm deployment charts.

Additionally, these repositories can hold one (single application) or more
(monorepository) applications depending on your development methodology.
Typically, each repository shold be configured with a "hld-lifecycle" Azure
DevOps pipeline that will add all managed applications inside the repository to
the High Level Definition Repository. Additionally, each application inside the
repository should also have an associated Azure DevOps multi-stage pipeline that
both builds and deploys the latest Docker image to Azure Container Registry and
updates the associated configuation in the HLD repository with the latest image
tag.

-TBD Section on packages directory and manging monorepositories vs single
application repositories

#### Initializing an Application Repository

- [Create a repository in the given AzDO project.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/create-new-repo?view=azure-devops#create-a-repo-using-the-web-portal)
- [Clone the repository.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/create-new-repo?view=azure-devops#clone-the-repo-to-your-computer)
- Initialize the project via `spk`
  ```
  $ spk project init
  $ git add -A
  $ git commit -m "Initializing application repository."
  $ git push -u origin --all
  ```
- Create a variable group via `spk`. If you are using a repo per service source
  control strategy, you only need to do this once.
  ```
  $ export VARIABLE_GROUP_NAME=<my-vg-name>
  $ spk project create-variable-group $VARIABLE_GROUP_NAME -r $ACR_NAME -u $SP_APP_ID -t $SP_TENANT -p $SP_PASS
  $ git add -A
  $ git commit -m "Adding Project Variable Group."
  $ git push -u origin --all
  ```
  where `ACR_NAME` is the name of the Azure Container Registry where the Docker
  Images will be served from and `SP_APP_ID`, `SP_PASS`, and, `SP_TENANT` are an
  associated Service Principal's ID, Password, and Tenant, that have Read and
  Write access to the ACR.
- Deploy the lifecycle pipeline (optional flag parameters can be used if `spk`
  was not intialized)

  ```
  $ spk project install-lifecycle-pipeline --org-name $ORG_NAME --devops-project $DEVOPS_PROJECT --repo-url $SERVICE_REPO_URL --repo-name $SERVICE_NAME
  ```

  where `ORG_NAME` is the name of your Azure Devops org, `DEVOPS_PROJECT` is the
  name of your Azure Devops project, `SERVICE_REPO_URL` is the url that you used
  to clone your service from Azure Devops, and `SERVICE_NAME` is the name of the
  service.

  Note: If you are using a repo per service source control strategy you should
  run `install-lifecycle-pipeline` once for each repo.

**NOTE** `spk project` command documentation can be found
[here](/docs/project-management.md).

#### Adding a Service to a Application Repository

- [Clone the repository.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/create-new-repo?view=azure-devops#clone-the-repo-to-your-computer)
- Create the service via `spk`, there are optional parameters that _should_ be
  used to configure the service and its associated helm charts (other optional
  flag parameters can be used if `spk` was not intialized)
  ```
  SERVICE_NAME=<my-new-service-name>
  spk service create . --display-name $SERVICE_NAME ...
  git add -A
  git commit -m "Adding $SERVICE_NAME to the repository."
  git push -u origin --all
  ```
- Deploy the service's multistage build pipeline via `spk` (optional flag
  parameters can be used if `spk` was not intialized)
  ```
  spk service install-build-pipeline . -n $SERVICE_NAME-build-pipeline -o $ORG_NAME -r $SERVICE_NAME -u $SERVICE_REPO_URL -d $DEVOPS_PROJECT
  ```
- Review and accept the pull request to add the service to the high level
  definition in Azure Devops.

**NOTE** `spk service` command documentation can be found
[here](/docs/service-management.md).

#### Creating a Service Revision

- Create and checkout a new git branch
  ```
  git branch <my-new-feature-branch>
  git checkout <my-new-feature-branch>
  ```
- Make code changes and commit
  ```
  echo "# My New Added File" >> myNewFile.md
  git add myNewFile.md
  git commit -m "Adding my new file"
  git push --set-upstream origin <my-new-feature-branch>
  ```
- Create Service Revision via `spk` (optional flag parameters can be used if
  `spk` was not intialized)
  ```
  spk service create-revision . -n $SERVICE_NAME-build-pipeline -o $ORG_NAME -r $SERVICE_NAME -u $SERVICE_REPO_URL -d $DEVOPS_PROJECT
  ```

**NOTE** `spk service` command documentation can be found
[here](/docs/service-management.md).

## Helm Charts

To have spk's build pipelines work properly, an application needs an associated
[Helm](https://helm.sh/) chart with specific variables.

### Requirements

TBD

### Sample Helm Chart

TBD

## Variable Groups

TBD

- Done to hold secure credentials and secrets.

## Pipelines

TBD

- Application build & update (1 per application)
- HLD lifecycle (adds applications to HLD repo)
- HLD to Manifests (generates manifests via fabrikate and places manifests into
  flux's source repo)
